To dive into all of that, I'll actually start by adding two new routes, a sign-up and a sign-in route
next to my new post routes. In my project,
that means that we need to add new routes here.
Thus far, we only got the posts folder and the header folder,
now I will add a new folder in the app folder and that will be my auth folder because there, I will handle
all the authentication related things.
So in there, I will create new subfolder folders, the sign-up subfolder which will hold my sign-up component
and the login subfolder which will obviously hold the login component. So in the login folder,
let's create a new component, the login component, so login.component.ts is the component file
and login.component.html
is the template belonging to that. In the Typescript file, we'll just export a class which is named
LoginComponent,
as always, this is how you create components and we turn this class into a component by adding the @component
decorator.
Now this is nothing new,
this is something you already know.
I will load this via routing and therefore I don't actually need to add a selector to this component.
We do have selectors on the post components because we did add them differently when we added them
the first time
but if you know that something will get loaded through routing,
you can just omit this selector.
The one thing you need to add though is a template or template URL,
so here I'll use a template
URL pointing at login.component.html,
so
at this external file.
Now this is a basic component
and of course we need to register it in order to use it.
So I will go to my app module and there in declarations,
I will add login component and my IDE automatically added this import
path, you need to add this at the top of your file too. Now the login component is registered here
and now we can start working with it. Now working with it mainly means creating a template
and of course also loading it via routing.
Now let's start with the template and there, I really want to create a form which allows me to create
a user with an email and a password,
you could always add more fields than that but this is the bare minimum with which I want to work in this
app.
So for logging in, we need email and password and therefore let's go to the post create component and
let's actually reuse that form we have here. I'll remove some things, like the image upload functionality
but in general, I will create a form and I will use mat-form-fields with inputs to fetch user input.
So in the login component, let's paste that in
but as I said, I will remove things.
I will actually leave the spinner in the card because I want to have that card look
and I also want to show a spinner whilst we're logging the user in but I will remove that form group
thing because here, I will actually go back to using the template driven approach.
I will therefore also change my submit listener for now,
mat-form-field here is fine,
mat-input is fine,
type text is fine or no it's not fine, that should be type email because I want to get the email, form control
name will be removed because I won't use the reactive form approach.
Placeholder is wrong,
it won't be the post title, it will be the e-mail address and the error should be please enter a valid email.
Here we also will not use this way of adding this error, we'll instead well revisit this condition later.
Now I will remove that div with the button and with the image uploader preview and on that second
mat-form-field, I will keep it but the text area here,
I'll remove it and instead add an input which is of type password because we want to hide the characters
the user entered. We'll add the mat-input directive to turn this into an input handled by Angular material,
we'll add a placeholder which is password which will also serve as a label and that's it for now.
Now the ngIf condition of that error also needs to be revisited, in
here I will enter a please enter a valid password. With that,
the caption here should be login and now before we actually start working on this a bit more and start
actually adding some functionalities here and start handling this,
let me remove the submit listener for now, before we do all that, I'll quickly add my isLoading property
to remove these errors and then I'll connect it via routing so that we can see it.
So first of all, about isLoading, in login component typescript file,
we can add isLoading and set it to false
initially, this will already make sure that this component should be usable.
Well almost,
I get an error that Angular is not able to handle the form because I am not adding my reactive form
features and I removed the normal forms module which unlocked the template driven approach.
So let's quickly do that in the app module, there at the top from Angular forms, I will now also import
forms module to have that template driven approach available, though to really have it available,
importing is not enough,
I will also go to imports here and where I add the reactive forms module,
I will also add the normal forms module you could say. And with that we got this enabled,
now again I'll also want to load it via routing. So let's go to the app routing module and there, it's time
to add new paths. This path should be loaded when I visit /login and there, I want to load my login
component, again
my IDE automatically added that import here. With that all set up, we should be able to visit this when
we enter /login but manually typing isn't what I want to do.
So let's instead go to the header component here and let's simply add a new link, a new list item with
an anchor tag which has the mat-button directive and there, we go to /login and of course my
caption here will also be login.
And now with that, we can save this, go back. We get login here,
we'll have to do something regarding the styling
but it does work, though this also needs to change from a styling perspective
but we're getting there.
Now let's first of all make sure that here in our header component, these links are aligned
and for that I'll go to the CSS code,
have a look at my unordered list and change it to actually use flex box,
so to set the display to flex. If I do that, the list items should be ordered next to each other and they
are
and this looks better
and now let's also work on that form here in my login component, this of course is not how I
want my form to look.
Now in the post create component, we fix this by giving the mat-form-field a width of 100%
and centering the spinners is also something I want to do.
So I will copy these two things here,
we'll go back to my login component, create a new file, the login-component.css file, add these styles
there,
I don't need the text area though,
so add these styles here and then I'll go to my login component typescript file and include that newly
added style file by adding style URLs, adding that array and pointing at login-component.css.
And with that, if we save that and let it reload,
this looks much better.
So now we get the login component set up there,
now this of course is not doing anything, we're not even handling the user input.
So that is what I'll do in the next lecture.